---
layout: minimal
title: Clear Fluids
---

### Marking

The shape of the pool is marked on the ground according to the
predetermined dimensions for excavation. The excavation lines would be
0.5m larger all the way around to account for the thickness of the
walls and back filling.

### Excavation

It is easier and quicker to use a mechanical excavator than to do it
by hand. A JCB can easily dig a pool 9m x 4.3m in a day. The excavated
soil can either be used to fill lower areas of ground or transported
off site.

<img src="http://www.360excavating.com/BackhoeJCB_Marc_10_21_2008_4_800x600.jpg" class="img-responsive" alt="JCB at work">

### Reinforcement

This is an important step for the strenght of the pool. A square grid
of criss cross steel bars is placed all along which conforms to the
shape of the pool. The reinforcement fabrication is raised from the
floor with block so the gunite can completely encase the steel grid
reinforcement. The plumbing is also stubbed ready to be encased by
gunite. At this stage a qualified electrical contractor is called in
to carry out the necessary earth bonding of the steel reinforcement.

<img src="http://www.precisionswimmingpools.com/Images/ConstPhotos/Plumbing/Lg_01.jpg" class="img-responsive" alt="Steel">

### Concreting

The gunite is shot into the pool in a day. It will require a full 30
days to cure. It is essential that the concrete shell be soaked down
with water hose twice a day. This ensures the shell cures evenly.

<img src="http://www.reedpumps.com/gunite550384.jpg" class="img-responsive" alt="shotcrete">

### Pool Fittings

There are several fittings which must be built into the pool wall as
work progresses. The return inlets, low suction fitted parallel to the
main drain, underwater lights, surface skimmer.

### Tiling

There are many varieties of tiles available for selection which would
alter the appearance of the water under lighting. The tiles are non
porous ensuring easy cleaning of water line. Otherwise scum would
collect on the pool plaster and cause staining. The tile is laid with
a full bed of cement and then grouted and thoroughly cleaned.

<img src="http://www.gbpools.co.uk/sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderpictures/fpm13.JPG" class="img-responsive" alt="tiles">

### Coping & Deck

The very edge of the pool or where you sit when you dangle your feet
in the pool. It can come in many number of materials depending on your
choice of deck material. The deck is laid as soon as the coping is on
the pool

<img src="http://media.merchantcircle.com/24694321/slate%20pool%20deck%20with%20stamped%20concrete%20coping_full.jpeg" class="img-responsive" alt="deck">


