---
layout: minimal
title: "Salt Chlorinators: A new trend in swimming pool sanitation"
---

### Salt Chlorinators: A new trend in swimming pool sanitation

<div class="media">
  <a class="pull-left" href="#">
    <img class="media-object" src="http://ecx.images-amazon.com/images/I/51jiAqQk7QL._SX300_.jpg" class="img-responsive" alt="Pentair Intellichlor IC40"/>
  </a>

  <p>
    There is a new trend in the swimming pool sanitation industry - Salt
    Chlorinators, that you may have heard of. So how does salt water and pool
    maintenance go side by side? Do these systems actually work? Does salt
    actually keep your pool water clear and clean? Read through to find out
    more on Salt Chlorinator systems and how they bring the best out of your
    pool.
  </p>
</div>



**HOW IT WORKS?**

Electrolysis and Sodium Chloride (NaCl). Those are the keywords here.

Salt Chlorinators makes use of the process of electrolysis to the salt
water when it passes through the system.  Using electrolysis, Sodium part
of Salt is taken apart and what we have left is Chlorine. This Chlorine
that we get here is very natural and when compared to other by products
wouldn't cause any issues to skin or eyes. It isn't hazardous.


**BENEFITS**

First and foremost, its about the Chlorine production. As it is being
produced continuously and moves around the pool, there is little chance
that the pool water would get cloggy or develop algae.
Almost all the pool owners have got issues with algae build up and chemical
balance of water. Salt Chlorinators helps reducing maintenance on the word
go. As chlorine is being produced consistently in the desired limits as set
by the system, there is little that the pool owner should do to check the
chlorine levels. It isn't necessary to use Chlorine tablets and the weekly
shocking of pools can be avoided.
The pool water remains crystal clear and it doesn't cause any irritation to
eyes or skin. Algae won't have a chance to inhibit in a Salt water pool.
Chemical cost reduces considerably and storing of these hazardous chemicals
can be avoided.


**DRAWBACKS?**

The initial investment is the only drawback that you would come across if
you want to consider it as a drawback. The investment would pay for itself
as you would see the savings in chemical costs and maintenance downtime.
All you would be left with is a crystal clear healthy pool with very
satisfied bathers. It does help you reducing your time and stress that you
would have otherwise spent on dealing with pool balance and chemistry.


**WOULD THE POOL BE SALTY?**

No, the water doesn't taste like salt, but the salinity levels are very low
(about 0.5 percent), and just slightly noticeable. The average salt levels
are usually in the 3000-4000 ppm range, much less than the ocean, which has
salt levels of around 35,000 parts per million (ppm). I would certainly not
consider the salt levels to be uncomfortable nor distracting.


**IS IT CORROSSIVE?**

This is a common misconception among people that salt water is abrasive and
corrosive. Salt Concentrations of less than 6000ppm isn't corrosive. A
regular chlorine level of 4ppm is more corrosive to stainless steel than
salt concentrations of 6000ppm.

Salt is a corrosive element but not at the concentration levels found in
pools. Extremely high levels of chlorine does cause corrosion and damage to
equipment, so pool balance needs to be maintained at all time.

**NO POOL MAINTENANCE?**

Another misconception here. It is very important to note that using Salt
Chlorinators doesn't make your pool maintenance free. Pool owners should
maintain proper chemical balance within the standards to have a healthy
pool.


**ARE THEY FOR REAL?**

Yes, they certainly are. It is the system that pool owners are using these
days and this trend needs to hit here as well. In Australia itself, more
than 90% pools use this system. The reason that the system has to pick some
ground here is because of the fact that this system would hurt chemical
manufacturers and their sales. Most pool owners aren't aware of this system
as well and so they resort to traditional methods to maintain pool water.
Once you see the advantages and how it actually fares with traditional
chlorinated pools, you would realise these systems doesn't face any
competition at all. Experts are of the opinion that in the years to come,
more pool owners would adopt this system.


**VARIANTS?**

Yes, there are different types of Salt Chlorinators available depending on
your pool size and requirements. We deal in Pentair, Certikin and Astral
range of Salt Chlorinator systems.

To find out more please call us at 811 30 44422 or email us at
sherin@clearfluidshq.com

